.TH DB-SNAPSHOT "1" "January 2019" "Outrun" "Outrun manual"
.SH NAME
db-snapshot
- clone an Oracle database from an ASM based storage snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B db-snapshot
[options] [stop|prep|finalize|clone]
.SH DESCRIPTION
During the clone process the database and datafiles will be renamed,
the file structure will be created (audit dirs, init.ora etc),
archive logging will be disabled. The database will be recovered until the
last available archivelog and shut down after cloning.
.P
Existing init.ora parameters from the source database will be used except
for file locations, and memory requirements will be set to use less than
1GB of memory. Enough hugepages must be available if the source database
also uses hugepages.
.P
.B db-snapshot
should run as user 'oracle' and must have password-less ssh access from the copy to the source host.
If the source host and target host are the same, password-less ssh access must still be configured
on the localhost.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-c <config file>
Load <config file> for options
.TP
-D
Enable debugging
.TP
--srv <host>
use <host> as source database host
.TP
--src <sid>
use <sid> as source database SID
.TP
--tgt <sid>
use <sid> as target database SID
.TP
--cmd <cmd>
call <cmd> to refresh storage snapshots. The command specified 
should have the instructions to create/update
a snapshot on some kind of storage array or other cloning facility.
.TP
--sga <size>
use <size> as new SGA_TARGET size for cloned database
.TP
--pga <size>
use <size> as new PGA_TARGET size for cloned database
.TP
stop
Stop and unmount cloned database
.TP
prep
run the prepare stage on the source host
.TP
finalize
run the finalize stage on the source host
.TP
clone
run the cloning stage on the target host
.TP
<none>
Run the entire cloning cycle
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
db-snapshot --src DEMO --tgt CLONE --cmd /usr/local/bin/snaprefresh
.fi
Clones the DEMO database on the same host to the CLONE database. A script 
named 'snap' must be in the path which refreshes the storage snapshot
.nf
.P
db-snapshot --src DEMO --tgt CLONE stop
.fi
Stops the CLONE database and unmounts the cloned ASM disk groups.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2018 Bart Sjerps <bart@outrun.nl>
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.PP
If you have suggestions for improvements in this tool, please send them along via the above address.
